# AMS Historica. A(n imaginary) migration journey 
This project has been realized in the framework of the <a href="https://www.unibo.it/en/teaching/course-unit-catalogue/course-unit/2021/443592"  target="_blank">85575 - Semantic Digital Libraries</a> course of the 2nd year <a href="https://corsi.unibo.it/2cycle/DigitalHumanitiesKnowledge"  target="_blank>DHDK Master Degree</a> a.a. 2021-22. 
The project initially started with the aim of analysing from a technical viewpoint, the migration of the University of Bologna <a href="https://amshistorica.unibo.it/" target="_blank">AMS Historica</a> - the digital repository specialized on physical items digitalizations - from an in-house system to a new commercial platform based on DSpace-GLAM.
Due to few information about the old system and the really early stage of the migration in early 2022, that did not allow to have enough information about the new platform, I have briefly illustrated the key point of the future digital library platform to then concentrate on a simulated semantic translation of a sample of AMS Historica records to envisage the possible problems that could have to be faced in using the DC metadata current description in a web semantic context.
I started by using as long as possible a sort of “DCMI translation” but I soon realized that a framework fully describing the complex relationship between the original item and its digitization, required a higher specialized ontology to be expressed. 
Analyzing then the library-bibliographic’s world related ontologies - as LRMoo, FABIO, Bibframe, etc. - I found really useful properties in the RDA ontology.
Two turtle serializations file for the first attempt on 30 items, ad the second more complex on just 3 items are here offered togheter with their RGF Grapher visualization and their source data.
